Intro to Bash Scripting
A Bash script is a plain-text file that
contains a series of commands that are
executed as if they had been typed at a
terminal prompt.
Generally speaking, Bash scripts have an
optional extension of .sh,
begin with a bash shebang,
and must have executable permissions set
before they can be executed.
Let’s begin with a simple “Hello World”
Bash script:
This script has several components worth
explaining:
On line 1, the pound sign followed by an
exclamation point
is commonly known as a shebang
and is ignored by the Bash interpreter.
The second part, /bin/bash,
is the absolute path to the interpreter
which is used to run the script.
This is what makes this a “Bash script”
as opposed to another type
of shell script, like a “C Shell script”,
for example.
On line 2, the pound sign is used to add
a comment,
so all text that follows it is ignored.
Then on line 3, echo “Hello World!”
uses the echo utility to print a string
to the terminal,
which in this case is “Hello World!”
Next, let’s make the script executable
and run it.
The chmod command,
along with the +x option is used to make
the script executable.
Now we can run the script with
./hello-world.sh
The ./ notation may seem confusing  but
this is simply a path notation
indicating that this script is in the
current directory.
Since our home directory is not included
in the PATH environment variable,
we must use the relative path to our Bash
script
in order for Bash to “find it” and run it.
Now that we have created our first Bash
script,
let’s explore Bash in a bit more detail.